---
title: Syllabus
---

# Course Prefix, Number, and Title:

DAD 422 Audio Production III Advanced Techniques and MIDI Music

AKA Introduction to Game Audio

# Credits:

3

# University Name:

Dakota State University

# Academic Term/Year:

Fall 2021

## Last date to Drop and receive 100% refund:

September 2^nd^, 2021

## Last date to Withdraw and earn a grade of \'W\':

November 5^th^, 2021

# Course Meeting Time and Location:

MWF 1:00 pm -- 2:40 pm TCB 209

# Instructor Information:

## Name:

Tate Carson

## Office:

TCB 305

## Phone Number(s):

\<\< Phone number \>\>

## Email Address:

Tate.carson\@dsu.edu

## Office Hours:

\<\< Office hours \>\>

# Approved Course Description:

## Catalog Description:

> Builds upon Audio Production II; Instructs in advanced multi-track
> editing techniques including advanced audio mixing, signal processing,
> and critical listening.  Also covers business practices for the music
> industry and career preparation, including copyright law, resume
> building and online music marketing and promotion. 

## Additional Course Information:

This course is an introduction to the theory and practice of spatial
audio and immersive sound. These fields will be explored in combination
with an introduction to game audio and sound design using the Unity game
engine.

# Prerequisites:

## Course Prerequisite(s):

DAD 322

## Technology Skills:

Basic computer programming

Basic understanding of audio production

# Course Materials:

## Required Textbook(s):

Game Audio Development with Unity 5.X by Michael Lanham

Principles of Game Audio and Sound Design by Jean-Luc Sinclair

Both books are available at the DSU Library as eBooks

## Required Supplementary Materials:

\<\< Supplements \>\>

## Optional Materials:

\<\< Optional materials \>\>

# Student Support:

## DSU Knowledge Base:

The DSU Knowledge Base contains links and resources to help students by
providing information about the following topics: User Accounts &
Passwords, Academic Tools & Resources, Software & Apps Support, WiFi &
Network Access, Campus Emergency Alert System, Campus Printing, IT
Security & Safe Computing, and the Support Desk (which is there to help
both on and off-campus students). The Knowledge Base can be accessed
through the link below:

-   [DSU Knowledge Base](https://support.dsu.edu/TDClient/KB/)

## D2L Support for Students:

The D2L Support for Students site is designed to provide DSU students a
D2L support resource center that contains user guides, tutorials, and
tips for using the D2L learning environment. The D2L Support for
Students site can be accessed through the link below:

-   [DSU D2L Support Resources for
    Students](https://d2l.sdbor.edu/d2l/home/606414)

# Course Delivery and Instructional Methods:

This is a lecture course. Topics are explored in this course through
lecture, class discussion, instructor guided activities*,* individual
student projects, and collaborative work.

# Classroom Policies:

## Attendance and Make-up Policy:

Students are expected to attend all scheduled classes. After **three**
absences, a half-letter grade will be deducted from your final score for
each class missed.

**Late assignments will not be accepted.** The dues dates of assignments
are clearly stated on D2L.

## Accessibility Statement:

Dakota State University strives to ensure that physical resources, as
well as information and communication technologies, are reasonably
accessible to users in order to provide equal access to all. If you
encounter any accessibility issues, you are encouraged to immediately
contact the instructor of the course and Dakota State University\'s ADA
Office, which will work to resolve the issue as quickly as possible.

DSU\'s ADA Office is located in the Learning Engagement Center and can
be contacted by calling 605-256-5121 or emailing <dsu-ada@dsu.edu>.
Students seeking ADA accommodations (such as non-standard note taking or
extended time and/or a quiet space taking exams and quizzes) can log
into the DSU portal to access
<https://portal.sdbor.edu/dsu-student/student-resources/disability-services/Pages/default.aspx/>
for additional information and the link to the Disability Services
Request Form. You will need to provide documentation of your disability
and the ADA Coordinator must confirm the need before officially
authorizing accommodations.

## Academic Honesty Statement:

Cheating and other forms of academic dishonesty run contrary to the
purpose of higher education and will not be tolerated in this course.
Please be advised that, when the instructor suspects plagiarism, the
Internet and other standard means of plagiarism detection will be used
to resolve the instructor's concerns. The South Dakota Board of Regents
Student Academic Misconduct Policy can be found here: [SDBOR Policy
2.33](https://www.sdbor.edu/policy/Documents/2-33.pdf).

All forms of academic dishonesty will result in \<\< insert class
specific Academic dishonesty standards here \>\>

# Communication and Feedback:

## Preferred Email Contact Method:

<Tate.carson@dsu.edu>

## Email Response Time:

Within 48 hours when class is in session

## Feedback on Assignments:

Within one week of the assignment due date

# Student Learning Outcomes:

By the end of this course, students will be able to:

-   describe the history of spatial audio and game audio

-   identify and describe the various aspects of spatial audio
    psychoacoustics, or how sound influences our perception of space

-   apply their knowledge of spatial audio psychoacoustics to creating
    an immersive audio environment in a game

-   demonstrate a basic understanding of procedural sound synthesis,
    audio programming, and implementation using the Unity game engine

    -   This is to prepare students for DAD 424, where they will work
        with students from Computer Game Design to create a complete
        game.

# Evaluation Procedures:

## Assessments:

\<\< Assessments \>\>

## Final Examination:

\<\< Final Exam date and time \>\>

## Performance Standards and Grading Policy:

\<\< Grading standards and policy \>\>

## Student Verification Statement and Proctoring Policy:

Federal law requires that universities verify the identity of students
when course materials and/or course assessment activities are conducted
either partially or entirely online. A student's Desire2Learn (D2L)
login and password are intended to provide the student with secure
access to course materials and are also intended to help the university
meet this federal mandate. Some DSU Faculty also require the use of a
proctor for exams in distance-delivered (Internet) courses and this
requirement provides a second level of student identity verification.
Students are responsible for any proctoring fees, if applicable.
Finally, an instructor who uses web conferencing technology may require
students to use a webcam during exams, as another means of student
identity verification through voice and visual recognition.

\<\< For online courses, include the verification method used for the
course (i.e., proctoring, portfolio, oral exam, student observation,
etc.) \>\>



# Freedom in Learning Statement:

Students are responsible for learning the content of any course of study
in which they are enrolled. Under Board of Regents and University
policy, student academic performance shall be evaluated solely on an
academic basis and students should be free to take reasoned exception to
the data or views offered in any course of study. It has always been the
policy of Dakota State University to allow students to appeal the
decisions of faculty, administrative, and staff members and the
decisions of institutional committees. Students who believe that an
academic evaluation is unrelated to academic standards but is related
instead to judgment of their personal opinion or conduct should contact
the dean of the college which offers the class to initiate a review of
the evaluation.

# Career Readiness Support for Students

DSU's *Career & Professional Development* office provides a variety of
career readiness support services for students as a means of connecting
their curricular (in class) and co-curricular (experiential and out of
class) learning experiences.  Through these services, *Career &
Professional Development* seeks to provide students with meaningful
career paths, connections to the regional and national business
community, and opportunities to develop the career competencies needed
to succeed in the workplace.  Services provided include, but are not
limited to, individual career coaching sessions, career development
events, mock interviews, networking activities, career & internships
fairs, resume & cover letter assistance, and opportunities for
experiential learning.  For more information, students can contact our
office at  <career.services@dsu.edu>, and access
Handshake [https://dsu.joinhandshake.com/](https://nam11.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdsu.joinhandshake.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7CTate.Carson%40dsu.edu%7C7067d42dd9c144076ba508d95b6bb5d7%7Ccbb5b5253b954d9394174dbb3c89512e%7C0%7C0%7C637641340460103041%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=STg7T%2FTHm1YS9lJocpsPG0URhNkh3OJLda3D1P2jK94%3D&reserved=0)
